# Configuring the Virtual Host

If you prefer to use your own development environment instead of our virtual machine, you'll have to add the virtual host generated by Studio to your 

Apache configuration manually.

This can be done in a number of ways, we'll explain a _local domain name_ based approach below.

1. Copy the generated info from Studio to the clipboard. It looks like this:

<script type="syntaxhighlighter" class="brush:bash">
<![CDATA[
<VirtualHost *:80>
  ServerName yourproject.local
  DocumentRoot /var/www/yourproject/web

  <Directory "/var/www/yourproject/web">
    AllowOverride All
  </Directory>
</VirtualHost>
]]>
</script>



2. Find the Apache configuration file httpd.conf. Under Linux / Unix, it is usually located in _/etc_ 

or _/etc/httpd_, under Windows you can find it in the Apache installation directory.

3. Open this file in a plain text editor (such as vi or Emacs under *Nix, or NotePad under Windows).

If the following line cannot be found in the file, then go to the end of it and add it now:

<pre>
NameVirtualHost *
</pre> 



NOTICE: Please note that ***you have to do this only once***! Creating any subsequent virtual host doesn't require you to add this line again.

Now paste the information you've copied to the end of the file, then save it.

4. Restart the Apache web server.

5. Locate the hosts file of your system. This is a file called "hosts" (no extension). Under Linux it is 

usually located in _/etc_, under Windows it's in the windows directory (most likely: _YourWindowsDir\System32\dirvers\etc_).

Open this file in a plain text editor and add the line below to it. The ***yourproject*** part is the name from the virtual host definition created by Studio. 

<pre>
127.0.0.1	yourproject.local     
</pre>



That's what it takes. You should be able to open up ***http://yourproject.local*** in your browser and access your project!
